docs/user-manual/modules/ROOT/pages/camel-4x-upgrade-guide-4_18.adoc, before:

= Apache Camel 4.x Upgrade Guide

This document is for helping you upgrade your Apache Camel application
from Camel 4.x to 4.y. For example, if you are upgrading Camel 4.0 to 4.2, then you should follow the guides
from both 4.0 to 4.1 and 4.1 to 4.2.

[NOTE]
====
https://github.com/apache/camel-upgrade-recipes/[The Camel Upgrade Recipes project] provides automated assistance for some common migration tasks.
Note that manual migration is still required.
See the xref:camel-upgrade-recipes-tool.adoc[documentation] page for details.
====

== Upgrading Camel 4.17 to 4.18

=== camel-simple

The *simple* language has deprecated binary operators that uses space in the name:

- `not contains` use `!contains` instead
- `not regex` use `!regex` instead
- `not range` use `!range` instead
- `starts with` use `startsWith` instead
- `ends with` use `endsWith` instead

=== camel-file

The `org.apache.camel.component.file.GenericFileOperations` has added method `storeFileDirectly`.

=== camel-docling

All not working metadata headers have been removed.
The option `extractAllMetadata` has been removed. Using `includeRawMetadata` will have the same effect given that there is no more `customMetadata` available.

It corresponds to the removal of functionality no more working since 4.17. Given that this functionality was never available in a LTS version,that the next LST version is the next one and the fix requires important change in upstream dependency; it is not going through a deprecation phase and removed directly.

==== DoclingDocument return type

The `CONVERT_TO_JSON` and `EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA` operations now return a `DoclingDocument` object (`ai.docling.core.DoclingDocument`) in the exchange body instead of a raw JSON string. This applies to both docling-serve API mode and CLI mode (where the JSON output is parsed into `DoclingDocument` via Jackson).

Code that previously received a `String` and manually deserialized it should be updated:

[source,java]
----
// Before (4.17)
String result = template.requestBody("direct:convert", filePath, String.class);
DoclingDocument doc = mapper.readValue(result, DoclingDocument.class);

// After (4.18)
DoclingDocument doc = template.requestBody("direct:convert", filePath, DoclingDocument.class);
----

The `EXTRACT_METADATA` operation also now uses `DoclingDocument` internally instead of re-parsing a JSON string, though the exchange body type (`DocumentMetadata`) is unchanged.

==== EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA differentiation

The `EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA` operation is now differentiated from `CONVERT_TO_JSON` when using the docling-serve API. It uses a dedicated request builder that enables table structure recognition (`doTableStructure=true`) by default. Additional enrichment features (code enrichment, formula enrichment, picture classification) can be enabled via the new configuration properties. Previously, both operations produced identical requests to the server.

The `BATCH_EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA` operation now has its own dedicated implementation (`processBatchStructuredData`) that sends structured data requests with table structure recognition enabled, matching its single-document counterpart. Previously, it was handled as a plain batch JSON conversion.

==== processTimeout and HTTP read timeout

The `processTimeout` configuration property (default: 30000ms) now also controls the HTTP read timeout when using docling-serve API mode. Previously, the HTTP read timeout was not configurable and used the docling-java client library default. For complex PDF documents that require OCR or enrichment processing, increase `processTimeout` (e.g., to 120000 for 2 minutes).

==== OCR bridging to API mode

The `enableOCR` configuration property is now bridged to the docling-serve API mode when explicitly set to `false`: it sends `doOcr(false)` to the server to disable OCR. When left at its default value (`true`), the server uses its own defaults to preserve backward compatibility. For explicit API-mode OCR control, use the new `doOcr` property instead.

==== New advanced configuration properties

18 new configuration properties have been added to expose the full `ConvertDocumentOptions` from the docling-serve SDK: `doOcr`, `forceOcr`, `ocrEngine`, `pdfBackend`, `tableMode`, `tableCellMatching`, `doTableStructure`, `pipeline`, `doCodeEnrichment`, `doFormulaEnrichment`, `doPictureClassification`, `doPictureDescription`, `includeImages`, `imageExportMode`, `abortOnError`, `documentTimeout`, `imagesScale`, and `mdPageBreakPlaceholder`. All default to `null` and only take effect when explicitly set. These options are applied to every docling-serve API request via the `applyConfigurationToOptions` method.

=== camel-qdrant

The class `org.apache.camel.component.qdrant.Qdrant.Headers` has been removed. It was deprecated since 4.15. It is replaced by `org.apache.camel.component.qdrant.QdrantHeaders`.

=== camel-tahu

The upgrade of Tahu from 1.0.17 to 1.0.18 introduced an API break. HostApplicationEventHandler has been renamed to MultiHostApplicationEventHandler and introduced one more parameter on all methods.

Even if the interface HostApplicationEventHandler is public, I do not expect Camel users to use the implementation TahuHostApplicationEventHandler from Camel. Also the change would be relatively trivial. So replacing it without deprecating it first in order to be able to use the latest Tahu version right away.

Consequently, there is an API break `org.apache.camel.tahu.handlers.TahuHostApplicationEventHandler` has been removed. It is replaced by `org.apache.camel.tahu.handlers.MultiTahuHostApplicationEventHandler`.

=== camel-platform-http-vertx and Rest DSL contract-first

When using Rest DSL in _contract first_ style, then the HTTP engine (vertx-web) instead of a single
router to handle all incoming Rest API calls, is now one unique router per API endpoint. This change
can affect HTTP request validation as vertx/Quarkus is now also performing this per API endpoint according
to the API specification.

All together this would make Camel behave similar for Rest DSL for both _code first_ and _contract first_ style.


=== Component deprecation

The `camel-olingo2` and `camel-olingo4` component are deprecated.
This is due the Apache Olingo project is EOL and has been moved to the attic and is no longer maintained.

Commit message:

CAMEL-23033: camel-yaml-dsl - Setting routePolicy on route should be routePolicyRef. Also polished docs, and made onException route dumper correct for handled/continued

docs/user-manual/modules/ROOT/pages/camel-4x-upgrade-guide-4_18.adoc, after:

= Apache Camel 4.x Upgrade Guide

This document is for helping you upgrade your Apache Camel application
from Camel 4.x to 4.y. For example, if you are upgrading Camel 4.0 to 4.2, then you should follow the guides
from both 4.0 to 4.1 and 4.1 to 4.2.

[NOTE]
====
https://github.com/apache/camel-upgrade-recipes/[The Camel Upgrade Recipes project] provides automated assistance for some common migration tasks.
Note that manual migration is still required.
See the xref:camel-upgrade-recipes-tool.adoc[documentation] page for details.
====

== Upgrading from 4.18.0 to 4.18.1

In the YAML DSL we have renamed `routePolicy` to `routePolicyRef` on the `route` node,
as that is the correct name.


== Upgrading Camel 4.17 to 4.18

=== camel-simple

The *simple* language has deprecated binary operators that uses space in the name:

- `not contains` use `!contains` instead
- `not regex` use `!regex` instead
- `not range` use `!range` instead
- `starts with` use `startsWith` instead
- `ends with` use `endsWith` instead

=== camel-file

The `org.apache.camel.component.file.GenericFileOperations` has added method `storeFileDirectly`.

=== camel-docling

All not working metadata headers have been removed.
The option `extractAllMetadata` has been removed. Using `includeRawMetadata` will have the same effect given that there is no more `customMetadata` available.

It corresponds to the removal of functionality no more working since 4.17. Given that this functionality was never available in a LTS version,that the next LST version is the next one and the fix requires important change in upstream dependency; it is not going through a deprecation phase and removed directly.

==== DoclingDocument return type

The `CONVERT_TO_JSON` and `EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA` operations now return a `DoclingDocument` object (`ai.docling.core.DoclingDocument`) in the exchange body instead of a raw JSON string. This applies to both docling-serve API mode and CLI mode (where the JSON output is parsed into `DoclingDocument` via Jackson).

Code that previously received a `String` and manually deserialized it should be updated:

[source,java]
----
// Before (4.17)
String result = template.requestBody("direct:convert", filePath, String.class);
DoclingDocument doc = mapper.readValue(result, DoclingDocument.class);

// After (4.18)
DoclingDocument doc = template.requestBody("direct:convert", filePath, DoclingDocument.class);
----

The `EXTRACT_METADATA` operation also now uses `DoclingDocument` internally instead of re-parsing a JSON string, though the exchange body type (`DocumentMetadata`) is unchanged.

==== EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA differentiation

The `EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA` operation is now differentiated from `CONVERT_TO_JSON` when using the docling-serve API. It uses a dedicated request builder that enables table structure recognition (`doTableStructure=true`) by default. Additional enrichment features (code enrichment, formula enrichment, picture classification) can be enabled via the new configuration properties. Previously, both operations produced identical requests to the server.

The `BATCH_EXTRACT_STRUCTURED_DATA` operation now has its own dedicated implementation (`processBatchStructuredData`) that sends structured data requests with table structure recognition enabled, matching its single-document counterpart. Previously, it was handled as a plain batch JSON conversion.

==== processTimeout and HTTP read timeout

The `processTimeout` configuration property (default: 30000ms) now also controls the HTTP read timeout when using docling-serve API mode. Previously, the HTTP read timeout was not configurable and used the docling-java client library default. For complex PDF documents that require OCR or enrichment processing, increase `processTimeout` (e.g., to 120000 for 2 minutes).

==== OCR bridging to API mode

The `enableOCR` configuration property is now bridged to the docling-serve API mode when explicitly set to `false`: it sends `doOcr(false)` to the server to disable OCR. When left at its default value (`true`), the server uses its own defaults to preserve backward compatibility. For explicit API-mode OCR control, use the new `doOcr` property instead.

==== New advanced configuration properties

18 new configuration properties have been added to expose the full `ConvertDocumentOptions` from the docling-serve SDK: `doOcr`, `forceOcr`, `ocrEngine`, `pdfBackend`, `tableMode`, `tableCellMatching`, `doTableStructure`, `pipeline`, `doCodeEnrichment`, `doFormulaEnrichment`, `doPictureClassification`, `doPictureDescription`, `includeImages`, `imageExportMode`, `abortOnError`, `documentTimeout`, `imagesScale`, and `mdPageBreakPlaceholder`. All default to `null` and only take effect when explicitly set. These options are applied to every docling-serve API request via the `applyConfigurationToOptions` method.

=== camel-qdrant

The class `org.apache.camel.component.qdrant.Qdrant.Headers` has been removed. It was deprecated since 4.15. It is replaced by `org.apache.camel.component.qdrant.QdrantHeaders`.

=== camel-tahu

The upgrade of Tahu from 1.0.17 to 1.0.18 introduced an API break. HostApplicationEventHandler has been renamed to MultiHostApplicationEventHandler and introduced one more parameter on all methods.

Even if the interface HostApplicationEventHandler is public, I do not expect Camel users to use the implementation TahuHostApplicationEventHandler from Camel. Also the change would be relatively trivial. So replacing it without deprecating it first in order to be able to use the latest Tahu version right away.

Consequently, there is an API break `org.apache.camel.tahu.handlers.TahuHostApplicationEventHandler` has been removed. It is replaced by `org.apache.camel.tahu.handlers.MultiTahuHostApplicationEventHandler`.

=== camel-platform-http-vertx and Rest DSL contract-first

When using Rest DSL in _contract first_ style, then the HTTP engine (vertx-web) instead of a single
router to handle all incoming Rest API calls, is now one unique router per API endpoint. This change
can affect HTTP request validation as vertx/Quarkus is now also performing this per API endpoint according
to the API specification.

All together this would make Camel behave similar for Rest DSL for both _code first_ and _contract first_ style.


=== Component deprecation

The `camel-olingo2` and `camel-olingo4` component are deprecated.
This is due the Apache Olingo project is EOL and has been moved to the attic and is no longer maintained.
